_(guest blogpost from David Hu, Developer Advocate for Foursquare)_

As a Developer Advocate for Foursquare, part of my job that I enjoy the most is helping other developers build great location-based apps using our API. After doing this for a while though, you’ll start to notice similar kinds of questions keep popping up: “Am I allowed to do this to stay within terms of your API?”, “How can I get my rate limits increased?”, “How the f@#$ does OAuth work?”

To this last question, there are certainly [many](https://github.com/Mashape/mashape-oauth) [helper](https://github.com/simplegeo/python-oauth2) [libraries](https://github.com/simplegeo/python-oauth2) out there that make life a little easier for developers working with OAuth, but most still require wrangling with redirects, codes, tokens, and a server-side component. There are those cases when you want a simpler solution, especially if you’re just working on a little hack or weekend project. This is where [OAuth.io](OAuth.io) comes in, which enables simple, serverless OAuth to be possible—go through the entire flow right in client-side browser code.

I recently played around with OAuth.io, using [Foursquaircut](http://foursquaircut.herokuapp.com/)—a little toy app I use during live API demos—as a guinea pig. Foursquaircut uses your Foursquare check-in history to determine whether you need to visit a barber soon, but this data is of course hidden behind an authorization wall and each user has to authorize the application before using it. The app used to use OAuth implemented in Ruby, which added complexity to the app that I had to quickly explain away during live demos before I could concentrate on what I actually wanted to talk about: Foursquare’s API.

After migrating to OAuth.io though, I was able to **entirely cut out the server-side component**, greatly reducing Foursquaircut’s complexity. Instead of juggling multiple endpoints, the entire app is basically now just a single HTML page, and the once-complicated OAuth component to retrieve an access token was reduced to just a **single JavaScript call**: `OAuth.popup('foursquare', authCallback)̀`, where `authCallback` receives an access token and makes API calls with it. With the complexity of auth’ing now abstracted away, it’s easier to see what the app does by looking at the code, which is now mostly application logic and using the Foursquare API. You can compare the [new version](https://github.com/octopi/foursquaircut-oauthio) with the [old](https://github.com/octopi/foursquaircut).

This was a pretty simple integration of OAuth.io, but it’s easy to see that its real power could come with its ability to simply integrate many disparate services and eliminating developer pain around maintenance. Although OAuth is a standardized protocol, it’s not as “plug-and-play” as much as it could be, and looking at documentation is certainly almost always required to be successful. And while there are certainly trade-offs and security concerns to using client-side OAuth—for instance, inability to save a token to a database or token sniffing—if going down this route, OAuth.io is certainly a promising solution.